# masterd-nanosystem
The first fully-automated nano-daemon designed to drive large-scale genomic image data systems at 454 Life Sciences / Roche Diagnostics

masterd ran from /usr/locl/bin and simply kept feeding jobs to the automated document delivery system, including all image and signal processing (very large processing tasks requiring compute clusters), then eventually processed by the "locoweb" web server which provided results data in human-readable format. The daemon ran uninturrupted across distributed systems for over 10 years without modification or failure (and rediculously low down time). The concept is too simple to fail!

The system was directly responsible for making data generated by genome sequencers available essentially forever, and the servers invloved with image and signal processing remained without user logins throughout their lifespans.

First human DNA sequence
In May 2007, Project "Jim", a project initiated by Rothberg and 454 Life Sciences to determine the first sequence of an individual was completed after sequencing the genome of James Watson, co-discoverer of the structure of DNA. (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/454_Life_Sciences)
All data was automatically handled by this simple daemon-driven system.

In November 2006, Rothberg, Michael Egholm, and colleagues at 454 published a cover article with Svante Pääbo in Nature describing the first million base pairs of the Neanderthal genome, and initiated the Neanderthal Genome Project to complete the sequence of the Neanderthal genome by 2009. (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/454_Life_Sciences)

These projects were nothing in comparison to the daily work load of up to 40 sequencers running 2-3 times per day. At one time each sequencer produced 120G of data per run, generating Terabytes of data daily which needed to be available forever - all handled automatically by the nanosystem.
